🐉 DND_Python
A modular Python engine inspired by Dungeons & Dragons mechanics.

This project is an early prototype of a D&D‑style game engine written in Python. It includes character logic, dice mechanics, and a foundation for turn‑based gameplay. The goal is to build a flexible system that can grow into a full campaign engine or be used as a teaching tool for Python learners.

📁 Project Contents
This folder contains the following files:

Char.py
A character module (likely an early or alternate version).
Handles:

Basic character attributes

Stats and modifiers

Possibly simple methods for actions or rolls

Character.py
A more complete or updated character class.
Typically includes:

Ability scores

Hit points

Inventory

Methods for attacks, rolls, or leveling

Dnd_Python.py
The main script for running the engine.
This file usually:

Initializes characters

Runs encounters or tests

Acts as the entry point for gameplay logic

character_save.json
A save file storing character data.
Useful for:

Persisting stats between sessions

Loading/saving progress

Testing serialization

Dnd_Python.pyproj
Project configuration for Visual Studio or compatible IDEs.

Dnd_Python.slnx
Solution file for organizing the project in an IDE.

🎯 Project Goals
This project explores:

Object‑oriented programming

Game logic and state management

Dice mechanics and randomness

Character creation and progression

Saving/loading game data

Modular Python design

It’s a strong portfolio piece showing your ability to build systems, not just scripts.

🚀 How to Run the Project
Navigate to the folder:

bash
cd Python_projects/version_one/Dnd_Python
Run the main script:

bash
python Dnd_Python.py
If the entry point changes later, update this section accordingly.

🧠 Features (Current & Planned)
✔ Current
Character classes (Char.py, Character.py)

Save/load system (character_save.json)

Core engine logic (Dnd_Python.py)

🔮 Planned Enhancements
Combat system with initiative

Inventory and equipment

Monster classes

Spell system

Story/campaign scripting

GUI or text‑based interface

Expanded save system

🛠 How to Extend the Engine
You can expand this project by adding modules such as:

dice.py — dice rolling utilities

combat.py — turn order, attacks, damage

monsters.py — enemy classes

items.py — weapons, armor, consumables

story.py — narrative engine

This folder is a perfect foundation for a full D&D‑style Python game.

🤝 Contributing
This is a personal development and learning project, but suggestions and improvements are welcome.
Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.
